1.Azure Virtual Network --> Created as a home or container for VMs. A VN is assigned a range of IP addresses. 
                            Within this range you can create a subnet whose IP range will be within the IP address range of the VN.
                            Within the subnet you can have resources who inturn can be assigned IPs from the range assigned to the subnet.
                            These IPs are private IPs and are used for communication within the VN only. 
                            For exposure to the outside world a public IP needs to be assigned.
                            For a VM to be added to an existing VN we have to make sure that both share the same region/location.
2. Application Security Groups --> Used to control traffic within servers hosted in the same group, so we can logically group together DB servers and web servers and handle
                                   traffic differently.
3.Vritual Network Peering --> When connecting two virtual networks together we can use virtual network peering. Here we create a private IP address between two VNs
                              and then the VMs in both VNs can start talking to each other with the help of this private IP
4.Point to Site VPN Connection --> Use case if when we want to connect a few VMs to a virtual network over the internet. To make this connection more secure
                                   we can use a VPN gateway which will enable a point to site connection tot he private IP of the virtual network. THis whole handshake happens 
                                   via certificates. 
5.Site to Site VPN connection -> USed when an on prem DC needs to connec to the Azure network. The on prem DC needs to have a routing device which has a public IP address.
                                 The Azure network needs to have a VPN gateway and a local network gateway(which stores public IP of the routing device).
6.Azure ExpressRoute --> Allows connections to Azure network using dedicated internet line. Special hardware is needed and patners in the region need to be available.                                 
                                 
                            
